

COSC 2436 - Data Structures
Bob Comer, Professor of Computer Studies

Program 4 - Linked Bag

Be sure to read through Chapter 4 in your textbook 
before starting this assignment.

In this assignment you will 
make some changes to the 
LinkedBag class template 
from Chapter 4. 
You will 
modify one of the existing methods and 
add a new method.

Start with the first (nonrecursive) version of the LinkedBag class template 
from Chapter 4. 
I have put the files that you need 
to get started in the Programming Assignments section of Blackboard.

Important: 
To use nullptr and 
other features of C++11, 
you need a compiler that is fairly recent. 
If your compiler was released in the last couple of years, you are probably okay. 
You may need to turn these features on in your IDE. 
For example, I typically use Dev-C++ with the GCC compiler TDM-GCC 4.9.2. 
To use C++11 features in Dev-C++, I had to select Tools/Compiler Options. 
Under the General tab in the "Add the following commands when calling the compiler" section I had to add:

     -std=gnu++11

Requirement: 
Do not make any changes to 
the member variables (data members) for this class template. 
Your modified class template 
should only have 2 member variables 
- headPtr and 
itemCount. 
In particular, 
do not add a pointer to the last node in the linked list. 
To find the last node, 
you will need to use a temporary pointer and 
traverse the list.

Modify add method

	Discussion: 
	In a bag, 
	the order of the entries 
	does not matter. 
	When you add a new entry to a bag, 
	it makes sense to choose an implementation that is 
	simple and fast. 
	For a typical array implementation, 
	the easiest place to 
	add a new entry is 
	at the end of the occupied part of the array. 
	For the linked implementation, 
	the easiest place to 
	add a new entry 
	is at the beginning of the linked-list. 
	It would not make much sense to 
	add a new entry at the end of the linked-list 
	because this would be slower and more complex.

	As an academic exercise, 
	revise the public method add 
	in class template LinkedBag 
	so that the new node is 
	inserted at the end of the linked chain 
	instead of at the beginning.

Add a second remove method

	Add a new remove method 
	that removes a random entry from the bag. 
	This new method should basically 
	work like the existing remove method 
	except that a random entry is removed. 
	Note: 
	Leave the existing remove method 
	in the interface and class template. 
	The prototype will be:

     bool remove();

		You will need to add this method to your bag interface file. 
		That is, 
		BagInterface.h 
		should include a pure virtual method 
		that matches this new method. 
		You must include documentation 
		(comments) 
		similar to the comments for the other methods in the interface.
		Add the method prototype inside the class definition 
		in LinkedBag.h.
		Add the method implementation 
		in LinkeBag.h. 

You can implement this method by borrowing code from the existing remove method. Here is an informal algorithm:

     canRemoveItem = bag not empty
     if canRemoveItem
        generate a random number in the range 0 through itemCount - 1
        think of the linked list as an array - the first node contains entry 0, etc.
        the random number indicates which node contains the entry to be deleted
        use a temporary pointer to traverse the linked list to the node to be deleted
        it is easier to remove the first node than any other node
        copy the entry from the first node to the node that contains the entry to be deleted
        delete the first node
     end if
     return canRemoveItem

Here is an example program that shows how to generate a random integer in a given range using the rand() function. 
The rand() function is defined in header file cstdlib. 
This program displays a list of 4 random integers in the range 0 through 99:

#include <iostream>
#include <cstdlib>     // include definition for rand()
using namespace std;

     int main ()
     {
         int number;

         cout << "Printing a list of 4 random integers in the range 0 through 99" << endl;

         for (int i=0; i<4; i++)
         {
             number = rand() % 100;
             cout << number << "  ";
         }
         cout << endl;

         return 0;
     }

Be sure that your driver includes code to test these modifications.

Assignment Deliverables

Submit all of your source code files. These include:

    driver
    Bag Interface
    LinkedBag header (including method implementations)
    Node header (including method implementations) 

Return to C++ Home Page

Copyright: © 2018 by the Austin Community College
Department of Computer Studies. All rights reserved.
Comments to: Bob Comer
Last updated: February 6, 2018
